---
layout: game

title: Charged
release_year: 2021
abstract: Use your charge to pick up and repel.
made_for: Made for Weekly Game Jam.
thumb: /assets/img/charged-thumb.png
thumb_alt: Charged gameplay thumbnail.
video_src: /assets/video/charged.mp4
video_placeholder: /assets/video/charged-placeholder.png
credit:
  name: Stephen Pearce
team:
  - name: Stephen Pearce
    url:  https://spdp.dev
platforms:
  - name: Itch.io
    url: https://spdp.itch.io/charged
created: 2021-06-17 14:07:31 +0100
#updated: 
tags: ["Game Jam"]
is_game: true
---

| Made with | Unity |
| Timeline | 1 week + post-release improvements |
| Playable | <a href="https://spdp.itch.io/charged" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" title="Play it on Itch.io">Itch.io</a> |


### Retrospective
Made for <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20220518204641/https://itch.io/jam/weekly-game-jam-205" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Weekly Game Jam 205</a>.


#### The Idea
The jam theme was &ldquo;unconventional superpowers&rdquo;.

It&apos;s a platformer with a light amount of physics-based challenge. Your unconventional superpower is that you are statically charged. As such, you can either attract or repel crates. It&apos;s in the repelling of crates that you can make projectiles of them. This allows you to progress through levels and defeat exit-blocking enemies. You can also move crates for leverage to higher places etc.


#### What went well
I learned a ton this week too. Particularly I&apos;ve gotten a good handle on Unity&apos;s animation system now.

The object attraction and repelling physics are far from perfect. They&apos;re good enough for a first attempt at anything like this though. If I get the opportunity to, then this game is for-sure a candidate for later expansion.


#### What went wrong
What didn&apos;t go wrong this week? It started with a bad design idea which I mused on for several days. I abandoned it Monday morning and later began work on Charged the same day. I thus lost several days effort.

I also felt like I spent too much time in the &ldquo;sandbox phase&rdquo;. It&apos;s a scene which contains one or two of every prefab and their intended behaviours. I spent 80%-90% percent of the time there and the remaining 10% on actual level design. Everything seemed to fall into place once the prefabs were working as intended in the sandbox.

Unfortunately I ended up submitting this game late. Still a game made within a week, but short of the jam deadline.


#### What I learned
* Don&apos;t sit on an idea for too long. Gotta fail fast!
* Sometimes, a feature will not work in the browser export. In a jam situation especially, don’t dwell on it.